Robert Max Williams
Tomas F. Llano

3.10 Define in your own words the following terms: state, state space, search
tree, search node, goal, action, transition model, and branching factor.

State: All of the information in the environment in a given moment

State space: all possible states

Search tree: Tree with root as starting state and braching on all possible
actions at that state, and from all other states.

Search node: "a node in the search tree"

Goal: the state (or node) that the agent wishes to reach, search is complete
once this node is reached.

Action: done by the agent, causes a transition between states

Transition model: A model of the environment which takes a state/action pair and
gives the next state of the environment.

Branching factor: the maximum number of actions available at any state

3.14
 Which of the following are true and which are false? Explain your answers.
 a. Depth-first search always expands at least as many nodes as A* search with
 an admissible heuristic.
 b. h(n) = 0 is an admissible heuristic for the 8-puzzle.
 c. A* is of no use in robotics because percepts, states, and actions are continuous.
 d. Breadth-first search is complete even if zero step costs are allowed.
 e. Assume that a rook can move on a chessboard any number of squares in a
 straight line, vertically or horizontally, but cannot jump over other pieces.
 Manhattan distance is an admissible heuristic for the problem of moving the
 rook from square A to square B in the smallest number of moves.

a. False, depth first might get lucky and go straight to the solution without
any branching

b. True! It would turn A* in Dijkstra

c. False, there are many sub-problems that can solved using A*, for example it
might have a model of the world with discrete actions that it can search with
A*, or the problem could be directly discrete (i.e. lock picking with servos)

d. False, if an infinity path from the root has zero cost, then BFS could get "stuck" going
infinitely deep without exceeding a small finite cost. The same could happen for
convergent sequences, i.e. 1/2^n

e. False. Counterexample: A rook on a empty board could move from A1 to D7 in
two moves, but manhattan distance between these points is 9, which is an
overestimate.

 
3.15 Consider a state space where the start state is number 1 and each state k has two
successors: numbers 2k and 2k + 1.
a. Draw the portion of the state space for states 1 to 15.
b. Suppose the goal state is 11. List the order in which nodes will be visited for breadth-
first search, depth-limited search with limit 3, and iterative deepening search.
c. How well would bidirectional search work on this problem? What is the branching
factor in each direction of the bidirectional search?

          1
     /         \
    2          3
  /   \      /   \
 4    5     6     7
/ \  / \   / \   / \
8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15

BFS: 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11*
DFS(3): 1 2 4 8 9 5 10 11
iterative deepening DFS:
1
1 2 3
1 2 4 5 3 6 7
1 2 4 8 9 5 10 11

c: Good, because floor(n/2) is backwards path!
